---
title: "Homework 4"
date: 2022-10-25
categories:
  - homework
tags:
  - c#
  - graphics
---
<script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>


# (T) Research on Theory
### Illustrate the parallels, between the properties of the relative frequency and the axioms for probability
Each axiom of probability corresponds to a property of the relative frequency:
1. For any event $$A$$, $$\mathbb P[A]\ge 0$$.
   
   This corresponds to the property saying that a relative frequency must be a positive value.
2. The probability of the sample space $$S$$ is $$\mathbb P(S)=1$$

   This comes from the fact that the relative frequency of a condition that matches all units is given by
   
   $$\text{freq}(\text{Any person})=\dfrac nn=1$$

3. If $$A_1,A_2,A_3,\dots$$ are disjoint events, then $$\mathbb P(A_1 \cup A_2 \cup A_3 \cup \dots) = \mathbb P(A_1)+\mathbb P(A_2)+\mathbb P(A_3)+⋯$$.

   This is equivalent to the additivity property of the frequency.

### Discuss some concrete examples of Probability measure Space
A probability space is defined by the triple $$(\Omega, F, \mathbb P)$$, which give respectively the sample space $$\Omega$$ (the space of all outcomes), the event space $$F$$ (where an event is a set of possible outcomes) and a probability function $$\mathbb P$$ (which assigns a value between $$0$$ and $$1$$ to each event in $$F$$).

A first simple example may be the experiment of the die toss, where an outcome may be the resulting number. That means that our events are all 6 possible numbers, which could be represented as such, so $$\Omega=\{1,2,3,4,5,6\}$$.

Then, we could be interested in all possible events, that is all possible subsets of outcomes. For example we may be interested in studying the appearance of an even number, or a prime number, or a completely arbitrary sequence. So, we could define $$F=2^\Omega$$ (or the set of parts of $$\Omega$$).

Since we can assume each number to be equiprobable and that each singleton (event with only one outcome) to be disjoint with all other singletons, we can define the probability of any event to be:

$$\mathbb P(E)=\dfrac{|E|}6,\quad\forall E\in F$$

Since any event has cardinality between $$0$$ ($$\emptyset$$) and $$6$$ ($$\Omega$$), when we divide it by $$6$$ we will get a number between $$0$$ and $$1$$ like the axiom requires.

Since there is no requirement for $$\Omega$$ to be finite (or even countably infinite), and no requirement for any subset of $$\Omega$$ to be an event, we could define a probability space using real numbers using a probability function such as the Borel measure.
The only requirement we have to keep in mind when defining such a function is that the probability of the whole sample space must be one, so if we decide to define the probability as the integral of a function within an interval we must make sure it sums to $$1$$ over all real numbers.

$$\mathbb P(\mathbb R)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}f(x)dx=1$$

### Illustrate how Measure Theory provides the mathematical foundation for Probability Theory
The reason why Measure Theory constitutes the mathematical foundation of Probability Theory is that you can define a $$\sigma-$$algebra for any probability space by having:

+ The measure space, $$\Sigma=\Omega$$ (the outcome space)
+ A set of countable collections $$\{E_i\}$$ (events), $$F$$
+ A measure $$\mu$$ defined on this set (which is our probability function $$\mathbb P$$)

To complete the construction we only have to fix $$\mu(\Sigma)=1$$ to get all of the axioms of Probability Theory (additivity is also defined in $$\sigma$$-algebras) while being able to use all results of Measure Theory.

# (A) Application
### Generate a m sequences of n trials distributed according a Binomial with success probability p and represent the following quantities: absolute frequency of success, relative frequency of success, "normalized" relative frequency of success.


### In the same chart, add also a vertical histogram representing the distribution of the above 3 types of frequencies on the last trial.


# (TA) Research on Application
# Give a simple introduction to graphics in the .NET environment. How to create a bitmap and a chart on it.
To use graphics in the .NET environment (we will be using C# in this demo) we first have to declare a `Bitmap` object:
```c#
Bitmap bmp = new Bitmap(width, height);
```

This will be the image upon which we will be drawing. Then we have to declare a `Graphics` object which will be responsible of applying the low-level operations when drawing more complex shapes like lines and rectangles:
```c#
Graphics g = Graphics.FromImage(bmp);
```

To see the results of our actions, we will have to add the bitmap to a picture box by setting its `Image` property and, every time we want to update the picture box with the changes, we will have to use its `Refresh()` method.

Once setup we can use many methods to plot charts on it, for example we can draw lines:
```c#
// Pens define the color and stroke of a line
Pen pen = new Pen(Color.FromArgb(255, 255, 0, 0))
g.DrawLine(pen, x1, y1, x2, y2);
```
Or rectangles
```c#
g.DrawRectangle(pen, x, y, width, height);
```

# Explain in simple terms how to get device coordinates from world coordinates
We can imagine that world coordinates live (ignoring possible units of measure) in a space like $$[a, b]$$.

What we usually want is to move every point in this space to another point in a space $$[c, d]$$ with certain conditions such that it may be easily drawable on a computer. For example $$d>c\ge0$$.

To do that, we need to do is apply a linear transformation to the first space such that it maps to the second space perfectly. Such transformation is of the form $$T(x)=p\cdot x + q$$ and by solving this system we can find $$p$$ and $$q$$ with respects to $$a$$, $$b$$, $$c$$ and $$d$$:

$$
\begin{cases}
T(a) = p\cdot a+q = c\\
T(b) = p\cdot b+q = d
\end{cases}
\implies
\begin{cases}
p(a-b)=c-d\\
q=d-p\cdot b
\end{cases}\\
\implies
\begin{cases}
p=(d-c)/(b-a)\\
q=d-b\cdot (d-c)/(b-a)
\end{cases}\\
$$

Converted to a function for easier use, we get:
```c#
private float MyMap(float x, float a, float b, float c, float d)
{
    return (x - a) * (d - c) / (b - a) + c;
}
```


