---
title: "Homework 6"
date: 2022-11-07
categories:
  - homework
tags:
  - c#
  - graphics
  - mean
  - variance
  - sample
---
<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.1/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML"></script>

# (T) Research on Theory

### Try to explain in your own words the concept of population and sampling distribution.
The **population** is the the entire set of unknown statistical units. A **sample** is a subset of this set.

Whereas a certain population may have some specific distribution, it will most likely be different from the distribution observed in any extracted sample, the **sample distribution**.


### Show the expected value and variance of the sampling mean and take a look at the same for the sampling variance.
Let us first define some notation:
+ $$X$$ is a random variable whose distribution as the same as that of the population.
+ $$X=X_1,X_2,\dots,X_n$$ is our **sample** (a subset of the population).
+ $$X_i\sim X, i=1,\dots,n$$ -- each **extraction** in our sample has the same distribution as the population. It is also important that we assume independence between each variable in the sample.

Now we can define the mean and variance of the population, which in turn will coincide with the mean and variance of each of the extractions:
+ $$\forall i=1,\dots,n\quad \mathbb E[X_i]=\mathbb E[X]=\mu$$ (**Mean**)
+ $$\forall i=1,\dots,n\quad \mathbb V[X_i]=\mathbb V[X]=\sigma^2$$ (**Variance**)

With these we can define the quantities we want the variance and mean of, which are:
+ the **Sample Mean**: 
  
  $$\bar X=\dfrac 1n\sum_{i=1}^n X_i=\dfrac{X_1+X_2+\cdots+X_n}{n}$$
+ the **Sample Variance**:

  $$S^2 = \dfrac1n\sum_{i=1}^n(X_i-\bar X)^2=\dfrac{(X_1-\bar X)^2+\cdots+(X_n-\bar X)^2}{n}$$

These two quantities are random variables. That means we can compute their mean and variance.

Let us start from the sample mean:

$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbb E[\bar X]&=\mathbb E\Big[\dfrac 1n\sum_{i=1}^n X_i\Big]\\
&=\dfrac 1n\sum_{i=1}^n\mathbb E[X_i]\\
&=\dfrac 1n\sum_{i=1}^n\mu=\dfrac {n\mu}n=\mu
\end{align*}
$$

*by using the linearity of the expected value and $$\mathbb E[X_i]=\mu$$*

$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbb V[\bar X]&=\mathbb V\Big[\dfrac 1n\sum_{i=1}^n X_i\Big]\\
&=\dfrac1{n^2}\sum_{i=1}^n\mathbb V[X_i]\\
&=\dfrac1{n^2}\sum_{i=1}^n\sigma^2=\dfrac{n\sigma^2}{n^2}=\dfrac{\sigma^2}n
\end{align*}
$$

*$$\mathbb V[aY]=a^2\mathbb V[Y]$$ and independence $$\to$$ variance linearity*

Now we can move on to the sample variance. Before we start any computation, let us compute these values, which will be useful later:
1. *By using the definition of  the variance, we can state that*. 
  $$\mathbb V[X_i]=\mathbb E[X_i^2]-\mathbb E[X_i]^2=\sigma^2-\mu^2$$
  $$\implies\mathbb E[X_i^2]=\mathbb V[X_i]+\mathbb E[X_i]^2=\sigma^2-\mu^2$$
2. *Using the same fact as before*
  $$\mathbb E[\bar X^2]=\mathbb V[\bar X]+\mathbb E[\bar X]^2=\sigma^2-\mu^2$$
3. *By using the definition of covariance, we can extract:* 
  $$\text{Cov}(X_i, \bar X)=\mathbb E[X_i\bar X] - \mathbb E[X_i]-\mathbb E[\bar X]$$
  $$\implies \mathbb E[X_i\bar X]=\text{Cov}(X_i, \bar X)+\mathbb E[X_i]-\mathbb E[\bar X]$$
  
   *By using the bilinearity of the covariance, we can compute the covariance of $$X_i$$ and $$\bar X$$:*
  $$
  \begin{align}
  \text{Cov}(X_i,\bar X)&=\text{Cov}\Big(\sum_{j=1}^n\dfrac1n X_i, \sum_{k=1}^n\dfrac 1n\bar X\Big)\\
  &=\sum_{j=1}^n\sum_{k=1}^n \dfrac1n\dfrac 1n\text{Cov}(X_i, X_k)\\
  &=\dfrac 1{n^2}\sum_{j=1}^n\sum_{k=1}^n 
  \begin{cases}
  \sigma^2&\text{if }k=i\\
  0&\text{if }k\neq i
  \end{cases}\\
  &=\dfrac1{n^2}\sum_{j=1}^n\sigma^2=\dfrac{\sigma^2}{n}
  \end{align}\\
  \implies \mathbb E[X_i\bar X]=\mu^2+\dfrac{\sigma^2}n$$

By using these three facts we can compute the mean of the sample variance:

$$
\begin{align}
\mathbb E[S^2]&=\mathbb E\Big[\dfrac1n\sum_{i=1}^n(X_i-\bar X)^2\Big]\\
&=\mathbb E\Big[\dfrac1n\sum_{i=1}^n X_i^2-2X_i\bar X+\bar X^2\Big]\\
&=\dfrac1n\sum_{i=1}^n (\mathbb E[X_i^2]-2\mathbb E[X_i\bar X]+\mathbb E[\bar X^2])\\
&=\dfrac1n\sum_{i=1}^n (\sigma^2+\mu^2-2\frac{\sigma^2}n-2\mu^2+\frac{\sigma^2}n+\mu^2)\\
&=\dfrac1n\sum_{i=1}^n \Big(\sigma^2\dfrac{n-1}{n}\Big)=\sigma^2\Big(\frac{n-1}n\Big)
\end{align}
$$

Computing the variance of the sample variance is much more complicated and, I assume, beyond the scope of this exercise, so I am just going to report what I could find online:

$$\mathbb V[S^2]=\dfrac{\mathbb E[(X-\mu)^4]}n-\dfrac{\sigma^4(n-3)}{n(n-1)}$$

# (A) Application

