---
title: "Homework 2"
date: 2022-10-12
categories:
  - homework
tags:
  - distributions
  - random
  - timer
  - csv
  - c#
---
<script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>


# Research
### Concept of distribution. Univariate and Multivariate distributions. Conditional and Marginal distributions.
A distribution is the description of the probabilities of observing each possible value (or some subset of the possible values) of one or more statistical variables in a dataset.

The simplest kind of distribution is the **univariate distribution**, or in other words, the distribution of a single variable in the dataset. To compute the univariate distribution of the variable $$x$$, we count how many time each value of $$x$$ is observed in the statistical units.

Let $$\text{Im}(x)$$ be the set of all possible values for the variable $$x$$, and let $$x_i$$ be the observed value of $$x$$ in the statistical unit $$i$$, then we can define:
+ the **counting function** $$C(x, v)$$ where $$v\in\text{Im}(x)$$ to be:
    $$C(x, v)=\sum_i
    \begin{cases}
        1 & \text{if } x_i=v \\
        0 & \text{if } x_i\neq v
    \end{cases}$$
+ the **univariate distribution** of $$x$$ is defined as follows:
    $$\mathbb P(x=v)=\dfrac{C(x, v)}{|x|}$$

We can generalize the concept of distribution to multiple variables. That is, we can compute the ratio with which each tuple of values of a subset of the variables in the dataset is observed in a statistical unit. We call this construct the **multivariate distribution**.

To define it mathematically, we need to extend the **counting function** to work with more than one variable:
    $$C((x, y, \dots, z), (v_1, v_2, \dots, v_k))=\sum_i
    \begin{cases}
        1 & \text {if } x_i=v_1, y_i=v_2, \dots z_i=v_k\\
        0 & \text {otherwise}
    \end{cases}$$
Where $$(x, y, \dots, z)$$ is a subset of the variables of the dataset, and $$(v_1, v_2, \dots, v_k)\in \text{Im}(x)\times\text{Im}(y)\times\cdots\times\text{Im}(z)$$

And, as for the univariate case, the **multivariate distribution** is defined as the following function:
$$\mathbb P((x,y,\dots,z)=(v_1,v_2,\dots,v_k))=\dfrac{C((x,y,\dots,z),(v_1,v_2,\dots,v_k))}{|x|}$$
It is also called the **joint distribution** of the variables $$x, y, \dots, z$$.

There are two more concepts left to define:
+ the **marginal distribution** which describes the likelihood of each value (or combination of values), regardless of the other variables in the distribution.
+ the **conditional distribution** which we can think of as a normal distribution in which the statistical units have been restricted to those satisfying certain characteristics.


**References**:
1. [Probability Distribution -- Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probability_distribution)
2. [Univariate Distribution -- Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Univariate_distribution)
3. [Marginal vs. Conditional Probability -- Study](https://study.com/learn/lesson/marginal-vs-conditional-probability-distributions-differences-rules-examples.html)


# Application
### Make a simple program which uses the objects RANDOM and TIMER.


### Make a simple CSV parser


### Compute a univariate distribution of a variable that you choose


# Research on Application
### The CSV Protocol (RFC 4180)

